[Music]
what's happening inside your body have
you ever wondered how little we know
about our bodies the human body is an
amazing and unique machine that triggers
thousands of processes every second and
we're not aware of a single one today
we're about to look at all the processes
that are going on in the very depths of
man you may say which man well what
about that one we can see he is in bed
some ordinary person just like you or me
it's 8:00 a.m. and I guess he is going
to wake up soon so it's better we hurry
what is the easiest way to get in the
nose of course wow it's really dark in
here and we see a vast forest around as
you can guess its nose hair this hair
catches all the dirt viruses and toxins
until he blows them or sneezes them out
an interesting fact people who live in
cities have more hair in their noses
than those who live in the countryside
and it's thicker and stiffer it's a
vital air filter for the human body so
we have to try really hard to break
through them hurry up we don't want to
be sneezed out jump and we were falling
down the nasopharynx wait a second
what's that strange sound can you hear
it it's coming from somewhere near the
mouth we better stop there and check
this out
aha he's just gnashing his teeth 8 to
30% of people around the world gnashed
their teeth while sleeping it's called
bruxism compressing the jaw bones is an
evolutionary instinct of Homo sapiens
who use their teeth as a weapon against
predators these days people clench their
teeth while sleeping as a reaction to
negative emotions such as fear anger or
disappointment well I hope this guy
isn't depressed or something and don't
worry about those tiny things you see
they're just bacteria there are about
40,000 bacteria in the human mouth and
most of them aren't harmful also saliva
always cleans the oral cavity and
protects teeth from damage
yep it's that liquid stuff around it's
funny
an average person creates so much saliva
during their life that it can fill two
swimming pools I can't imagine what it
would look like Oh
his breathing changed and became faster
and the gnashing has also just stopped
he's waking up let's head back to the
nasopharynx the air passing through the
nose becomes cleaner and warmer here
then it goes through the larynx to the
trachea as you can see the trachea is a
tube that consists of cartilaginous
rings towards the end it branches into
the bronchi through which the air
reaches the right and left lungs
you can see each of the bronchus
branches into thin tubes with pulmonary
vesicles at the end that's where the
blood gets oxygen and gives off carbon
dioxide by the way an adult person
performs around 23,000 inhalations and
exhalations a day impressive huh oops
it seems we've been detected he's going
to sneeze see how the lungs just filled
up with air when sneezing the speed of
airflow reaches 60 miles per hour so we
better get out of here before we fly out
like a rocket from his mouth let's jump
into the capillaries and give the
circulatory system a little visit the
circulatory system is a long labyrinth
in twining the entire human body the
total length of all the blood vessels is
about 62,000 miles or 100,000 kilometers
this is twice as long as the length of
the Equator can you imagine the blood
filled with oxygen is heading to the
left side of the heart through the
pulmonary vein then the heart pumps it
to the other parts of the body to
provide oxygen to the muscles did you
know that our heart pumps around 182
million litres of blood during our
lifetime it pumps blood at such pressure
that it could raise blood up to the
fourth floor of a building and it is
very small just about the size of your
fist Oh
his heart started beating much faster
what happened
let's go a bit higher and see what he's
doing hmm
I can see the bathroom his kitchen the
bathroom again seems like he's in a
hurry he's running around his apartment
like a rabbit you might be thinking why
is everything upside down
well according to physics the collective
lens reverses the image of the object
the cornea and lens are pretty much
collective lenses so they invert the
image when it reaches the retina of the
eye after that the image is transmitted
to the brain along the nerves and the
brain flips it back to how it really is
by the way the only part of the body
that has no blood supply is the cornea
of the eye yeah that one
it receives oxygen directly from the air
wait a second something is ringing
around this phone I guess where is it ah
it's his boss caller you believe that
you're special
his eyes are expanding yeah and pupils
are dilating it seems he's nervous and
scared
also the more the brain works the larger
the pupils become he's probably trying
hard to come up with something to tell
his boss let's hurry to the ears I want
to hear what is going to happen uh-oh
it seems his boss has gone wild well
it's already 9:00 a.m. and this guy is
still at home you can hear how loud the
boss is screaming and see how the ear
drum is vibrating the ear is a unique
human device there isn't any other
mechanism that responds to the smallest
changes in air pressure with such
striking accuracy it transforms the
vibrational motion of the sound wave
into a certain sensation which our brain
perceives as sound speaking about the
brain let's pay it a visit as well
100,000 chemical reactions occur in our
brain every single second every second
it's simply amazing isn't it
as we can see Wernicke's area and
Broca's area are active right now both
of them are located in the left
hemisphere of the brain and participate
in the speech function Wernicke's area
is responsible for understanding speech
and Broca's area is responsible for
reproducing speech also it controls the
muscles
of the face tongue and throat I guess
the guy's explaining why he is late to
his boss wait a second something else is
happening why is he shaking oh man no
he's choking didn't he learn that he's
not supposed to eat while talking let's
get to the nasopharynx quickly maybe we
can help him in some way
when a person swallows the larynx
usually closes in order to prevent food
from getting into the respiratory tract
but while talking the larynx might
remain open
oh my judging by the smell it's a piece
of fried eggs with bacon he's coughing
now don't worry man
you can do it coughing is just a natural
attempt by the body to remove anything
stuck in the respiratory tract
he must COFF harder now great there you
go
that annoying piece flew out so alas we
can't see the digestion process today no
worries we'll come back another day and
show it to you in another video so our
friend is hurrying to work let's leave
them alone and come back here another
time lots of amazing processes going on
in the human body are still uncovered
how do our cells form and get replaced
with others how many enzymes are active
in the body how many bacteria do live
inside of us and why we'll answer all of
them so thank you for joining me on this
adventure around the human don't forget
to hit the like button below the video
and click Subscribe new discoveries are
waiting for you